All right, we are ready to jump in.
I know last week we got talking so
much, they put two timers on, plus
our intro video and, uh, today we
just did one timer in an intro video.
Success.
Right.
Um, but it, it is wonderful
to see you all again.
I, I think I missed out on the memo when
I showed up and Matt and Amanda were in
these sweaters and I'm like, Hey, cool.
Anyways.
Side note, side note.
Um, hey, Christmas is coming.
Anybody excited, uh, for it to come?
And if you're a parent that's been
buying gifts for your kids and
like rapping, are you almost there?
I mean, Britney's still shopping and
we'll wrap probably Saturday night.
It's okay though.
It'll be done.
Um, so.
Back to the message.
Sorry, I'm just totally getting
sidetracked this morning.
That's probably how today's gonna be.
Um, so we have been walking through
the series talking about the names
of the coming Messiah, right?
So he shall be called.
Um, and we are finally on the last
part of this, um, today, where we're
in Isaiah chapter nine and we've
been reading verses six and seven.
We'll read those again
one more time today.
But as we're coming to the end of the
series, there's a couple of things that
I've just been thinking through is,
is my hope since week one that we've
been walking through the series, is
that we have maybe kind of rekindled
this idea of the season of Christmas.
Um, because again, I, I talk to enough
of you guys and enough people out,
I ask, Hey, how's Christmas going?
And typically it's stress.
Christmas is stressful because we have a
lot of gifts to buy and a, and a lot of
parties to attend and places to travel.
And it's usually coming off
Thanksgiving where we did the same
exact thing and, and this season
becomes like exciting at times, but
then stressful and then we get done
with it and it's like, oh, we move on.
And I, I think it's so important for
us to not miss just this idea that
Jesus is the greatest gift we'll ever
receive, and he is somebody who is.
Worshiping and praising and
celebrating all year long.
So we're kind of just bringing that
idea back and we're learning more and
more about who Jesus is and this coming
Messiah that Isaiah was talking about,
we've experienced, obviously he's came and
he's began to show up as these different
names that we've begin to see here.
And these are the names I want
to kind of catch you up on it.
Uh, the names that we have learned,
About the name of the coming.
Messiah is wonderful counselor, mighty
God, an everlasting father, and so
I just kinda wanna break those down.
So wonderful.
Counselor, when we think about a wonderful
counselor, he is above anything we
could ever experience and he will walk
with us and help us and counsel us
wherever we go in whatever we're doing.
As mighty God, Jesus is stronger
and more powerful than anything else
that has ever been created or made.
Jesus is above all and is all
knowing and control of everyth.
And then last week we talked about
Everlasting father, and this is the
part that I really focused on, is this
idea behind a everlasting father is
not meant to just be experienced in
eternity, but to be experienced now.
Right?
So we don't have to wait for
eternity to start drawing on the
inheritance of the kingdom of God.
Um, his love, his mercy, his grace,
his forgiveness, his hope, his
wisdom, and the freedom that he
gives us to live and experience that.
I mentioned this last week, and I think
I could mention it again this week.
We could take those three names and
we could begin to just get to know
Jesus more and more every day as a
wonderful counselor, a mighty God, and
an everlasting father, and that would be
enough because Jesus is amazing, right?
All the things in which he provides
and the things that He's done for
us and and allows us to experience
this side of heaven through a
relationship with him is amazing.
Just in those three names
and ways that he relates to.
But Isaiah didn't stop there and
he gave us one more name and he
gave us the name Prince of Peace.
Prince of Peace.
And we're gonna walk through more
and more about what that means today
and kind of break that down, um, and,
and see some examples in the word and
also see some examples personally.
But I, I wanted to start off this way.
Typically, um, if you guys have
been around long enough, you're
starting to catch some of my trends.
And if that is, you're starting to catch
those, I probably need to change them.
Um, but usually I ask a question,
uh, whenever we start a message,
but I really wanna share a.
This is a personal story about
how God, how Jesus has been
the prince of peace in my life.
And I really wanna set it off this way
because I want you to begin thinking
this way today because you're gonna
get an opportunity to share how God has
been the prince of peace in your life.
Um, I think testimonies are
so important, which means this
testimonies are what God's done in
your life, and you are called, you are
challenged to share those testimonies.
Don't keep 'em to yourself.
And as we share them, Here's what I know.
I'm encouraged when I hear
God working in your life.
It reminds me of how good God.
And so today I wanna share with
you to start off here of how
God has been the prince of peace
and mine and my family's life.
So one of the cool parts, you guys know,
obviously we moved here to plant a church,
but there's a part of that that I've
shared multiple different times, but I
wanna share it a little bit different.
Today is in our journey of if 2019
when we were formally in Oklahoma,
I was an executive pastor there and
we felt that God was calling us to
plant a church, but we didn't know.
There was this season where, just
so you guys know, when we were
at this former church, we'd been
there for seven years on staff.
Uh, everything was going well.
My pastor probably would've kept me
in that position as executive pastor
for the rest of my life because he
was appreciative of my role there.
We had so many friends, everything
was going great, but God put
something on our hearts to begin
to pursue a call of church.
I remember when we, uh, sensed it and
we started reaching out to the North
American Mission Board, which is the
agency that we planted our church through.
Um, and they said, Hey, pray about where
God's going, you know, to call you.
And so we started praying and,
and we started praying over Ohio.
And, um, so we started finding
Cincinnati and then Indianapolis.
And so our family, um, me and Britney and
Sterling at that time was a young baby.
We jumped on a plane and literally flew
out here to dispense some time in ci.
Indianapolis.
I remember getting on that plane
and, and again, this is like
everything's great back home.
We're on the plane, we're flying back,
and she says, well, what do you think?
And this is what I said.
I felt like God was telling me, he
says, you cannot stay where you are.
You have to go plan a church.
In that moment, we didn't
realize that statement.
And how large that was and what we
were really committing ourselves to
because we were gonna be moving 750
miles away from any family, any friends,
and any connection to plant a church.
And that moment was the moment
that we started experiencing the
peace of God, the prince of peace.
Because when we got back and told
our pastor, when we start, when we
got back and started telling our
church and our friends, you know what
they started saying, you're crazy.
We couldn't do this.
There's, there's no way we could
move that far away from our family.
There's no way We started hearing
reasons why we shouldn't go, and we
kept having this peace because God was
giving us peace that we were getting
ready to, at that moment, leave a
church family that we absolutely loved.
That was the church I
gave my life to Christ in.
That was where I had made
so many amazing friends.
That's where every one
of my family members is.
Oh, he had peace.
And I remember whenever we told
the church and we're like heading
this direction, we're seven months
out from going to move here.
And we were like, Hey, wait, after seven
months we don't get paid from this church.
How are we even gonna
have money to be here?
We only know like a handful of people.
And so we started praying
and we started seeking.
But in the midst of
that, God gave us peace.
They was gonna provide that.
Where are we gonna live when we get there?
We had just bought a
house nine months before.
How are we gonna sell that
thing without losing money?
There were so many things, guys,
to not have peace about that.
Everybody is sitting there
asking the questions, well, what
are you gonna do about this?
Well, what are you gonna do about this?
And you know what?
We had peace.
Now what I would say is this.
Was it 100% of the time?
No.
There was moments of worry and then God
would remind us that he is the prince.
A piece.
And the cool part that I, of how I
believe that we could experience God
in this season of when we were in 2019.
I'll give you the short version, right?
And all of that.
God provided funding, selling our house.
We passed assessment, we had
connections, we moved, showed up.
God provided, and here's the cool part.
We're three years in, we're
celebrating our three year anniversary
of moving here in one week.
We moved the day after Christmas, 2019.
I would say this, just if you look
at statistics, church planting,
uh, success rates can kind of vary,
but I would say we had a 50 50
shot of his church plan succeeding.
I don't know.
I think we may still be out there
on whether we are successful or not.
Okay.
Uh, but I think we are because you guys
are here and we are seeing, uh, we heard
a testimony this morning about how we're
making a difference in our community.
Uh, and I believe that we're
continuing to see that.
So I say that all, all to say.
Why could our family experience the
Prince of Peace in a season of unknowns
in a season of all these things that
we had no clue was gonna happen?
You wanna know how?
Because we knew him as wonderful counselor
first, because we knew him as mighty God.
First because we knew him
as everlasting father of our
eternity secured and our lives.
Now, we were able to take steps of
faith because we knew God in that way.
We knew Jesus in that.
And I, I hope as we continue to
go through today, that as you are
living your life, that you can
experience the Prince of peace, even
whenever it's chaotic around you.
And people will ask
you this question, why?
Cuz that's what people asked us.
How could you do this?
And we kept pointing back to do,
do you understand that the God in
which we serve and what he can do?
And, and, and my my hope is,
is, is as you experience.
You'll wanna do more and more
for him to see him show up
because he will, he will show up.
And God has done amazing
things in this church.
I've seen several of your lives
change because what God's done
through this church, but I, I'm even
pointing this, I'm, I'm not trying
to get ahead of myself guys, but in
a couple of weeks, we're gonna come
back here in the beginning of January
and we're gonna have a vision Sunday.
And I'm gonna cast some awesome and
amazing vision that's gonna require faith.
And, and just so you
know, it's not just my.
This is the cool part in the
church that we came here to plant.
We came with six people originally.
It's all four of our
kids and me and Brittany.
And it was our faith.
And more and more people have joined
in and it's required y'all's faith.
And I know that's a Oklahoma term
y'all, but I brought that here to Ohio.
Okay.
Y'all's faith as well to be a
part of experiencing the Prince of
Peace, the mighty God, the wonderful
counselor of the everlasting father.
And more and more and more.
Amen.
So let's jump in cuz I know
I haven't jumped in yet, so
don't, don't start clocking.
Okay, don't start clocking me yet.
So, um, let's jump in here and look at
and read this text and then we're gonna
talk about the setting a little bit,
cuz I know I sh I shared a little bit
of the setting in the last couple weeks.
I don't wanna spend a ton of time on that.
Um, but I want to jump into
a little bit of that and then
talk about the Prince of Peace.
So the verses here again,
Isaiah chapter nine verses six.
Seven.
It says this, for a child will be
born for us, a son will be given
to us and the government will be on
his shoulders and he will be named.
Wonderful counselor.
Mighty God, eternal father,
prince of peace and the dominion
will be vast and its prosperity
will never end in his reign.
On the throne of David and over his
kingdom to establish and sustain
it with justice and righteousness.
From now on and forever, the Z of the
Lord of the armies will accomplish this.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray, Lord, as we dive
into your word and then dive into,
uh, this name, Lord Prince of Peace.
And as we dive into the testimonies that
we're gonna share in the examples in
the Bible, Lord, I pray that we leave
out of here experiencing you in a.
God, you desire for us to
know you in these ways.
And I pray that we don't just know
it by knowledge, Lord, but we know
it by experience God, that you
transform our hearts and our lives
for your glory and for our good.
And we pray this in your heaven name.
Amen.
So if I discussed in the past the setting,
right, the idea that Isaiah is a prophet
and his prophet prophesied about a coming
Messiah, but he's speaking to a group
of people known as God's people, right?
They were the the people of Israel.
And now, Plainly speak here.
So basically they split into two groups.
It was Israel and then Judah.
Uh, and he is speaking directly
to Judah, the tribe of Judah.
And these people were
getting ready to be exiled.
I don't know about you all, but again, I'm
gonna use that word I guess a lot today,
but I if you were told today, Hey, you're
gonna have to leave your home and you're
gonna be taken away far from your land,
and you're gonna live in a foreign country
under a foreign rule, uh, for at least 70
years, how excited would you be anybody?
I mean, you guys probably like your homes.
Maybe some of you want
to give up your homes.
You you're excited for the adventure.
Most of these people were not excited.
These were their homes
where they had grown up.
They didn't wanna leave.
But what had happened was the
people of Israel were not following
God's will for their lives.
They were following other gods.
They were doing things for themselves
and because they were doing things
for themselves, right, their own
ways, God was going to exile them to,
to be able to draw them back to him.
And so because they knew this was
coming and the prophet Isaiah knew
this was coming, he is preparing them
to basically say, Hey, but you're
not going to stay there forever, and
you're not gonna have to be in this
condition of brokenness forever.
Isaiah begins to share that he's
sending this, that God is sending
this coming Messiah, Jesus.
I know we get to look
from this side of it.
Jesus has already come.
Jesus has saved us from our sins because
now we can give our lives to him and
repent of our sins and trust in his
salvation and his payment for our sins.
And we get to experience that now.
But they needed to experience
Jesus in these ways.
That's why he began to share these names.
And I would say, in this season of
our lives, we need to experience
God in this way because.
Because we are heading
into a season of unknowns.
We are heading into a season of testing.
You never know where you're
gonna need to cling to these
names of God to relate with him.
And so one of those was the peace
of God, the prince of peace, right?
And we know this from Philippians four,
seven, that Jesus' peace surpasses all
understanding, just like what I shared.
Earlier about our scenario.
So let's jump in Prince a piece.
What does it mean?
So let's just break this down,
like we break it down every week.
The word prince, as you begin to study
this prince, in context it means ruler or
leader, and I love the name that that was
really described at the end of this, this,
uh, definition, which was administrator.
Then he says he's not only the
administrator, the prince of what.
And one, the first definition as we begin
to look into this is you define peace in
this specific context, the first word that
came out was complete or completeness.
I, I know that sounds like
weird, like peace is like no war,
like no internal strife, right?
And there's part of that, right?
Safe, prosperous, quiet
freedom from disturbance.
But the first word was completeness.
And so I started thinking about this,
that, that Jesus administers peace to us.
He administers completeness, which
means he is the one that completes
us and fulfills us even when our
circumstances are dark and bleak.
I love that thought.
So let me just kind of summarize
this, the Prince of Peace.
Jesus is our leader of peace.
He controls it and provides
it or administers it.
His peace is whole and complete.
We do not need to look
anywhere else to provide.
His peace frees us from all the things
in our lives that try to take it from us.
He is our source of peace, and it is time
for us to stop looking for other things
and other people to fulfill that peace.
If that's a challenge to you today,
I, I, I'm telling you, I, I, I
hope you leave with that freedom.
Don't look to other things to
provide the peace that Jesus
gives as the prince of peace.
So let me ask this question.
What are some things in your life?
What are some things in our lives?
That takes or tries to
take our peace from us.
What are some things in your life,
our lives, the world's life that
tries to take our peace from us?
This is the time where you guys
can give some feedback, finances,
people, social media, work.
Keep going.
Sickness.
Yes.
Illness, money.
Anything else you wanna throw out?
Don't elbow the person next to you.
I saw a couple of those.
What about an unknown future?
You ever wonder what's gonna happen?
Anybody who struggle
with a lack of control?
I don't.
, I, I would say this, y'all answered so
quickly because you know at times you
struggle with peace in those areas.
Maybe a wayward a child.
May be an unknown job situation.
May it mean a family conflict, or you
name it, we've all experienced it.
Here is the cool part.
This is the part that I love.
I, I'm this person, again,
my background's in finance.
I love that.
Two plus two equals four.
And if you tell me any
different, you're lying.
But that makes sense to me.
To me, if I don't have peace, you know
what two plus two equals for this situ.
Jesus is the prince of peace.
If I don't have peace, my answer
is Jesus who provides that peace
through a relationship with him.
To consistently remind ourselves
of it, we have to have a
consistent relationship with Jesus.
That's cool to me to know that
Jesus can be my prince of peace.
I know where to go.
I, I know that I don't go to my friends
just to complain to them, and I know I
don't just go to my bank to try to get
a loan and I know I just don't go to
my work to try to get them to figure it
out, even though those are places where
God will guide and direct you to do as
you need to do to provide that peace.
But he, despite what you're
going through, can and will.
But how do we experience that?
How do we experience it?
We have to remember this, and this
is a statement I want you to, to,
to keep with you and walk with you.
Peace is not an absence of struggle.
Or trials in your life, but the
presence of God in the midst of them.
I wanna say this again.
Peace is not the absence of struggles
or trials or difficulties, but the
presence of God in the midst to
them Guys, no matter if you are
a believer in Christ or not, you
will have trials and difficulties.
Here's the cool part.
When you give your life to Christ,
he is there with you in the midst of.
And you'll be amazed as you
begin to pursue that relationship
with Jesus, how you can live
different than the world does.
The world stresses and is
anxious and is overwhelmed.
And here's the thing, even as
Christ followers, at times we
do too because we forget to
remember that Jesus is our peace.
He is our prince of peace.
But as we continue to focus on our
relationship with Jesus, We know that
he will provide that peace that we need.
So peace is found where
the presence of God is.
And without a right relationship
with Jesus, we won't find that peace.
I'm gonna say that again.
Peace is found where
the presence of God is.
And without the right relationship
with Jesus, we won't find that peace.
I know this sounds crazy, but.
We do have a part in it.
And that part is, is Jesus is always
there, ready to provide that peace.
It's whether we're willing to pursue
him, to find it, whether we're willing
to consistently get into God's Word
and begin to consistently be, and
this is where I wanna challenge
you with those prayer cards.
Be vulnerable to ask for prayer and
support, to be vulnerable, to be willing
to surrender your life to Jesus and be
willing to take up what he has given
us through relationship with him.
I know that that is difficult at times.
I underst.
But knowing Jesus as a prince of peace
means that we can trust his plan,
whether we know the details or not.
And so Thaddeus Williams said this.
He says, happiness and security
don't come from knowing everything,
but knowing the one who does.
And then he goes on to say
this, if we don't believe in an
omniscient God, which is basically
this, an all-knowing God, right?
We'll overestimate our own wisdom
and try to become an all-knowing.
And that's a recipe for
foolishness and despair.
And I remember this, and this is something
that challenged me as beginning to think
through in the storms of life here.
Here's the thing, when you have kids,
your kids know when there's difficulties
going on in your life, they watch you.
And one of those examples is, and you
guys may have kids or not, but maybe
have animals, your animals do the same
thing when there's a storm outside.
Do they, do they get.
I know your animals do.
I've, I've heard some of them, but
even my kids do, my, my kids kind
of get nervous when it's raining
and, and the wind's blowing.
And, and what do they do?
They're looking usually to you.
Is it okay?
Is everything gonna be okay?
And we have to remind our kids this.
During the storms, we say, Hey, trust us.
When we start freaking out, you can
start freaking out, but if we're
not freaking out, you're good.
And it seems like it calms our
kids down, like just trust.
Can I step out there a little bit?
When we look at this idea behind the
storms in our life and the things
that are going on around us, our
Heavenly Father, the Prince of Peace,
knows what we need, knows what we
need, and what we're going through.
And here's what he's telling you.
In the midst of this, he's
telling you not to worry.
He'll take care of it.
And here's what he's telling you.
Until I freak out, you don't freak out.
And here's the cool part.
God doesn't freak out, and so
we have to keep going back to.
And I was challenged by this statement
as I was, I was, uh, talking to my
wife, Brittany, about something.
I don't remember how we got talking about
this, but it was this idea behind worry.
And I've heard this statement
multiple times, what we worry
about the most, we trust God in the
least, what we worry about the most.
We trust God in the least.
And it's kind of funny because it's the
moments that I start remembering these
things and it's like I, I'm coming up
here to like, share with you guys and
I'm like, man, there's been some moments
recently where I've had some major worry
and then I'm convicted and I'm like, man,
that's where I'm trusting God the least.
And you know what I did?
In the midst of that, I went back to
God and I said, okay, God, uh, this
financial situation, this health
situation, this car trouble situation,
this relationship situation, whatever it.
Is yours.
Here's the cool part.
My pastor used to remind me
this when I was in Oklahoma.
Um, if everything you have is God's,
when it's broke, he's gotta fix it.
I mean, if you have a vehicle
and it's yours, you have to
fix it if it's broke, right?
But if everything you have is given to
the Lord, then when it's broke, when it's
difficult, you just say, Lord, it's yours.
It's your wayward child.
It's your relationship issue.
You fix.
What do you have to do?
It's not a one-time, Hey, surrender
that situation to the Lord.
It's a daily decision to
commit that to the Lord.
So why did Isaiah leave the
prince of peace to the last part?
I believe it's probably the
one that most of us need.
Does anybody need peace?
More peace than life over situations?
Yes.
I think some of you didn't raise your
hands cuz you just don't want to,
you don't have peace about raising
your hands that, that's nervous.
That's a struggle.
I get it.
Okay.
I.
So I, I, I, we talked
about the prince piece.
We, we kind of set this thing up and
I want quickly transition into this.
Here's what I know.
And, and, and, and the more I started
thinking about this message, I could
continue to just dive deeper, but
I, I wanna just take a step back.
I have learned, and I feel like
in my short life of faith, right?
I think I've only been safe now for
about 12 years in my short life of faith.
I believe that I have grown more
in my knowledge and understanding
of God by seeing and hearing
testimonies of other people's.
We're gonna take a little bit of time
and we're gonna read through a couple
of scriptures, a couple of different
stories in the Bible, uh, in the
gospels of how Jesus was the prince of
peace in two different circumstances.
Here's the cool part.
If you, you wanna know how
Jesus was the prince of peace?
Go read all the gospels and you'll see how
he was multiple times for multiple people.
But I'm choosing two specific
stories to walk through today as
a church to see how he was the
prince of peace in these situations.
And then I'm gonna give
you some time to share a t.
Of how Jesus was the prince of
peace and a situation for you.
And here's what I know.
Early on in my faith, I had to clean
to the testimonies of other people.
Cause I hadn't experienced
God in that way.
So I remember early on in my faith
when my family was young and broke,
and I think I'm old now and broke,
but young and broke, I struggled.
And we would talk to people and
they would share stories of how God.
Are you serious?
Like he did in that way?
And you all know, you ever
hear somebody share a story
and you're like, yeah, right.
Yeah, that's a fake.
But then we started just believing,
okay, Lord, we believe you in this area.
We believe you in this area.
And then God would show up.
And then now we have a testimony,
and then now we're in a group
usually, and we would share that
with them and they would go no way.
Like, man, I've been God, I'm
gonna pray for God to show up.
And then God would show up again and God
would show up again and God would show up.
This is why it's so cool to be able
to share testimonies, but if you
don't have one today, that's fine.
I'm praying that you cling to the
ones that I've shared, the ones that
we'll learn in the Bible, and then
some of the ones that others share.
So that's really cool.
I think it's cool that we're gonna
get an opportunity to do that.
Okay, so let's do this.
If you have your Bibles with
you, if you don't, we're gonna
have it up on the screen.
We're gonna turn to John chapter two, and
we're gonna read verses one through 11.
And, uh, this is the part I probably
should have even offered like a mic.
Uh, Jason, if I throw a mic out
to somebody and let them speak
into a mic, they could do that.
Let's do that.
I'm asking somebody to read this,
and before you read it, you're gonna
think I'm crazy why we're reading it.
So, does anybody wanna read, uh, John
chapter two, verse one through 11?
Anybody I, I know a lot of y'all are.
Here we go.
Awesome Megan.
Thanks.
All right.
Go ahead and read.
On the third day a wedding
took place in Canna of Galilee.
Jesus' mother was there and
Jesus and his disciples were
invited to the wedding as well.
When the wine ran out, Jesus's mother
told him they don't have any wine.
What has this concern
of yours to do with me?
Woman Jesus asked My hour has not yet.
Do whatever he tells you.
His mother told the servants, now,
six stone water jars had been set
there for Jewish purification.
Each contained 20 or 30 gallons
fill the jars with water.
Jesus told them, so they
filled them to be to the brim.
Then he asked to them, now
draw some out and take it to
the head waiter, and they did.
When the head waiter tasted the
water after it had become wine,
he did not know where it came.
Though the servants who had drawn the
water knew he called the grim and told
him, everyone sets out the fine wine first
then after people are drunk, the inferior.
But you have kept the fine wine until now.
Jesus did this, the first of
his signs in Can of Galilee.
He revealed his glory and his
disciples believed in him.
Thank you, Megan.
So you're gonna say, what the heck?
Like how does this relate
to the Prince of peace?
There's a reason why I chose this.
Um, y'all may not think that's
important, you know, just turning and
wine into a water for a wedding party.
But let's, let's think a little bit here.
I'm just not gonna, I'm not gonna
take an hour to, to mill this up,
but I wanna think just a little bit.
Jesus' mother knew how important it was
for the wedding party to provide what
was needed for the wedding, and if they
did not provide for it, they ran out.
It would be an embarrassment for that.
So even in that small thing where it was
just of me an embarrassment for a family,
Jesus was their peace because here's
the thing, they were freaking out now.
Now it's cool.
Here's the cool part.
Jesus' mother wasn't because she knew
who Jesus was, but the rest of the
party's like, what are we gonna do?
They're freaking out.
They're not at peace.
In a small situation, this is again,
not life or death, this just sit
in the small circumstances of life.
And Jesus showed.
Now again, you're thinking
what, what's crazy about this?
I, I, I want you to hear these stories
because I want you to know this.
In the small things,
Jesus can be your peace.
I remember early on in my faith when
I was outside changing a light bob
for my car, my headlight, and so you
guys know, if you don't know me really
well, I'm not good at working on
cars even when it comes to headlamps.
Okay?
And I probably didn't even say that.
But I'm a man and he
changes his own lights.
This is what I'm supposed to do.
I get out there guys and I don't
know what I'm doing, and I get
it open and get the light bulb
out, but I can't get it back in.
I don't, and I'm, what do I do?
It's night and I gotta get this changed,
and I stopped early on my faith.
I'm like, okay, Lord, it's a
light bulb, but I need help.
I went back over and I put the
light bulb in and it worked.
I'm just telling you I don't
know why, and I laughed.
I remember going and telling Brittany,
even in the small things, God hear.
Even in the small things, God
wanted to be my peace cuz I was
freaking out in that moment cuz I
had my man card on the line, right?
I was freaking out.
But God showed up.
I shared that story cuz I want you to
know even sometimes in the small details,
Jesus can be your prince of peace.
So let's read this second one.
I need somebody to read
in Mark chapter nine.
Mark chapter nine, verses 14 through 27.
This is up on the screen and
um, who wants to read this one?
Mark, chapter nine verses 14 through 20.
Anybody.
I know I got at least one person
in here that loves reading
somebody even up on the screen.
All right.
What?
Oh, here we go.
Brian's doing it.
I'm going to Brian.
Thanks Brian.
When they came to the disciples,
they saw a large crowd around them
and scribes disputing with them.
When the whole crowd saw him,
they were amazed and ran to greet.
He asks them, what are you
arguing with them about?
Someone from the crowd answered him.
Teacher, I brought my son to you.
He has a spirit that
makes him unable to speak.
Whenever it seizes him, it throws
him down and he foams at the mouth,
grinds his teeth, and becomes rigid.
I ask your disciples to drive
it out, but they couldn't here.
PI replied to them, you
unbelieving generation.
How long will I be with you?
How long must I put up with?
Bring him to me.
So they brought the boy to him.
When the spirit saw him, it immediately
threw the boy into convulsions.
He fell to the ground, rolled
around, foaming at the mouth.
How long has this been happening to him?
Jesus asked the father from childhood,
he said, and many times it has thrown
him into fire or water to destroy him.
But if you can do anything, have
compassion on us and help us, Jesus said
to him, if you can, Everything is possible
for the one who believes immediately.
The father of the boy cried out,
I do believe, helped my unbelief.
When Jesus saw that a crowd was quickly
gathering, he rebuked the unclean spirit
saying to it, you mute and death spirit.
I command you.
Come out of him and never enter him again.
Then it came out shrieking and
throwing him into terrible convulsions.
The boy became like a corpse, so that
many said he's dead, but Jesus taking
him by the hand released him and stood.
Awesome.
Thank you for reading that.
So could have chose a
lot of different stories.
Um, and honestly, if you want some
more, just go start reading through
the gospels and you'll find 'em.
There's a reason why I chose that
story, because there's a part in
here where the father says, um,
I do believe, help my unbelief.
Um, let, let me just kind of
describe a couple things here.
Number one, the disciples
who were spiritual people.
Couldn't bring peace to
the father of the boy.
Only Jesus could.
Um, the father was seeking peace and
Jesus was the only one to provide it.
And he says, I do
believe, help my unbelief.
Right?
I'll just tell you this, in
some of the circumstances of
life, this one's a unique one.
Again, I'm not diving into the context of
this and how this boy was, uh, possessed
in how things were happening there.
I, what I wanna focus on is there
was a desperate need because this
boy was sick and he was not right.
His father was desperate.
Has anybody ever been
desperate for the Lord to move?
And, and here in the midst of asking
and desperation, I've been there and,
you know, a lot of times what I've had
to do because it's difficult, is I've
had to say this, Lord, help my unbelief.
I do believe, I do believe you
can move in this circumstance.
This situation helped my unbelief
and, and I, I wish I could
tell you that at the moment.
I said that the next moment,
everything was perfect.
Because sometimes it takes weeks
and months for us to see how
God is providing that peace.
Sometimes it takes years and it takes
reflection to see what God does, and
sometimes God does it immediately.
I've experienced both sides of that.
I, I, I want you guys to see these
examples because I want you to see that at
times it's the simple things in which we
need peace as sometimes it's the difficult
things and we struggle to believe.
Even your pastor struggles to believe,
okay, it's okay at times to do that
because we forget how good God is.
We forget that God moves in mighty
ways, just like we read in his word,
and just like we've heard in our lives.
I remember just even thinking about this.
As early as this year, I
struggle with believing that God
could do something miraculous.
And again, I'm gonna go back to
a life circumstance and we're
gonna jump into your lives.
Um, most of you that have been around
for a while would know that we built a
home on the west side of Hamilton, uh,
and we signed the contract in November of
like 2021 when interest rates were low.
Everything was great.
Um, everything was great then, right?
And then everything started going
up, interest rates, construction
costs started going up.
And in the midst of it, I
couldn't lock in our interest.
I started freaking out
cause I'm a finance guy.
I'm controlling, wouldn't believe it.
I'm controlling and I'm getting mad.
I mean mad.
And my wife's always the civil person
of like, well, God's gonna take
care of it and it's gonna be fine.
And I actually had to hear the story of
another church planner who was dealing
with the housing situation and he shared
with me how God showed up in his life.
And I just said, you know
what, Lord, if you can do it
for him, you can do it for us.
Help me believe cuz I don't see.
Help me believe.
And before it was all said and done,
our construction costs never went up.
We didn't have to pay anymore, and
we were able to get an interest
rate almost at the rate that we
started with back in November.
I don't know how, I'm just telling you,
I don't know how, because I was freaking
out, but I kept saying over and over
again, I believe, Help my unbelief.
I, you may think it's crazy, it's
a house, but I do believe this,
our house we knew was going to
be a ministry in our community.
It was gonna get us
closer to our community.
It's gonna allow us to invest and be
able to do the things we're doing.
Like we, we see that
everything we have is god's.
That's just a testimony again of, I
believe God showed up in our lives.
That's for us.
But I would love to take just
a few minutes, a few minutes.
For you to start sharing and
we'll have two to three people.
We may have more time for more to start
sharing how God has moved in your life,
how God has been the prince of peace for
you, so that maybe you can encourage us.
But I wanna leave you with this
statement before you share.
There's some that sought Jesus
that didn't leave with peace.
If you'll remember Nicodemus who met
with Jesus, he didn't leave with peace.
And if you remember the rich young ruler
who says, Hey, I've done all these things.
What should I do?
And he says, go sell all your
possessions and come follow me.
And he left away sad.
He did not have peace.
Some of us come to Jesus and we
don't receive the peace he gives us.
But for you, how has God been
the prince of peace for you?
So who wants to share?
I'm gonna pass around to Mike and
I'm hoping I get at least two or
three of y'all who wants to share.
Oh, Amanda's up.
Here we go.
So a lot of you know my story, um, but a
part of the story that you may not know.
Um, so I had a, a miscarriage in
early December, 2020, got pregnant
again right away and was praying
and just, you know, that fear if
anyone's had a pregnancy loss.
The fear of pregnancy again after
that is really overwhelming and I
was just praying for peace and I
was praying for God to just settle
my heart and I heard him speak.
You're going to lose this one in.
and I started crying.
Matt came downstairs and
I was a sobbing mess.
And I was like, I don't know why.
I don't know what God's
doing in this moment.
Um, but I feel like I'm
gonna lose this baby.
And so let's just, let's just
pray for peace right now.
Um, we did end up losing the baby.
Uh, it was a long, drawn out process,
lots of complications, took forever.
I kept praying for mercy.
I was like, God, just, I get it.
I get that.
I have to go through this,
but just let's move on.
Right.
Um, about four weeks later was
when I found out that I had breast.
and it was because of the pregnancy.
Um, and so I was praying
that again that night.
Um, when I found out that I had the
tumor, um, and I was thanking God, I
was like, thank you for this angel baby,
because this baby is what saved my life.
This is what, this is what
is gonna give me a future.
And um, I heard God speak the name Josiah.
And I was like, okay, that's really weird.
Like no desire to name the
angel baby wasn't a thing.
I looked it up and it
means God saves in Hebrew.
. Um, and so when it comes to, you know,
I was talking to somebody a few weeks
ago about like, well, how do you, how do
you have faith in difficult situations?
How do you maintain your faith?
Um, and the answer is by going
through difficult situations
and by seeing God come through.
Um, and so the only way, the only
reason that we've had any peace through
any of this journey, um, is because
of all the things and all the ways
that God has showed up for us in every
step of the way leading up to it.
Um, so just wanna encourage you in that.
Amen.
Thank you so much for,
Anybody else wanna share?
How has God been the prince of peace
for you, even in small circumstance?
I love hearing every one
of them who wants to share.
Come on.
I know there's a couple other people.
You're just afraid to talk.
Oh yeah.
Here we go.
Sorry, I wasn't looking far enough left.
Um, I hate talking on microphones.
So thank you for being a leader in this.
Um, so.
Last, this past summer, um, Doug
and I, uh, our, our main car broke.
We have like an old, old granny car that
still worked, but our main car broke and
it really sucked and we had a really hard
time getting around and getting a new
car and it just wasn't in the budget.
Um, and I was in discipleship group
with Britney and some other ladies.
Um, and our memory verse that week
I'm gonna read it was, um, acts 1724.
He is the God who made
the world and everything.
Since he is the Lord of heaven and
earth, he doesn't live in manmade
temples and human hands can't serve
his needs for, he has no needs.
He himself gives life and breath to
everything, and he satisfies every need.
And so I just, I memorized that verse.
That was our verse of the week.
But I clung to it and I still
clinging to it when I have struggles
with peace and anxiety over things.
Um, the Lord really.
Like allowed me for the first
time to like, give that to him.
And I really just believed like he was
gonna provide and he was gonna do it.
And it, like you said, if it's
his car, then he's the one
that has to buy us a new car.
So, and then he did , , um,
the church gave us.
A very generous gift.
Um, and we were able to put a down
payment on a new car, and it was just
the biggest blessing that we've ever had.
And like the hugest like miracle that
like the Lord provided in such a huge way.
Um, yeah.
So Cool.
Thank you so much for sharing.
All right, one more person.
I'm trying to get to three.
One more person wanna share how.
God has been the prince of peace for you.
Yes.
Awesome.
Thank you.
It's okay.
Lisa, thank you for setting that example.
So now we got more people sharing.
Um, so I was pregnant with Isaac,
um, and Josh had this crazy idea
that he wanted to move out to land
and I was like, okay, I'm on board.
We started like looking at houses.
We had found one, we lost it at the time.
We were like both kind of upset
about it and then we found.
, the house that we were currently in,
but then we actually lost that one.
Like somebody had like outbid
us and so our realtors like,
yeah, you don't have it.
So we were kind of like set on like,
okay, we're either gonna live with my
parents when i's born or his parents, and
I was like, this is not gonna be good.
Um, but then, yeah, like a week or
two later, I feel like our realtor
called and said that had fallen
through and like if we still would.
The offer that we had, that it was ours.
And so, yeah, it was just
a really cool moment cuz we
thought it was like not ours.
And then, yeah.
God opened that opportunity.
Yeah, that was our would not have
Good, I'm gonna be praying a lot.
You weren't gonna be peace at
peace . So God provided the Yeah.
Peace.
New baby in-laws.
Yeah.
We had already sold the, oh, wow.
Awesome.
I'll, I'll give one more last chance.
Anybody else wanna share?
All right, we're gonna let Megan share.
All right, so my, one of my
grandmas died almost two years ago,
and that side of my family, um,
had suffered a really hard loss.
My cousin had passed away when she was
15, so they are not people of faith.
Um, we never talked about any of that.
It was kind of just this unspoken rule
that people just don't bring that up.
and I knew when my grandma got
sick that she was gonna die.
Um, and we drove to Chicago
to say goodbye to her.
And I remember,
I remember telling Josh on the
way up there, don't let me leave
without talking to her about God.
And I waited until the last minute
because those conversations are so
heavy and I knew God put it on my
heart that that's what I had to.
So I talked to her and I asked if
we could talk about it, and she said
that she'd rather not, and I knew
what that meant for her salvation.
And so I kept talking her through it and
I asked if we could pray together and
she said she'd rather not, that it makes
her uncomfortable and I'd left really
worried for my grandma's salvation.
it was, and I'm, this story has a happy
ending, I promise, but I'm crying because
it was so emotional and I'm reliving that.
But I left and I came home and it was
about a week later and I was driving
in the car and I heard God say to
me, call your grandma right now.
And I was like, I'll call her
whenever I get where I'm going.
And if anyone knows.
and they've ever tried to
reach me on my cell phone.
Everybody will say that I'm the
worst person to ever try to get a
hold of, and I don't respond back.
So sorry about that.
But I thought, I'll call her when I
get back and God wa God also knows me.
And God goes, no, you're
gonna call her right now.
And so I pulled over and I parked and I
called my grandma and my brother answered.
And I said, is grandma still here?
And he said, yes, but she's not talking.
And I said, put the phone to her.
and I talked her through what she needed
to do and say to God for her salvation.
And I told her I was gonna pray
with her through it, and I did.
And a couple hours later I
got the call that she died.
And when she died, I have never felt
more peace about receiving the news that
someone had died because God put it on my
heart that she had that conversation with.
And if you have had that sense of
peace from God where he comes over you
and tells you it's okay, that feeling
doesn't come from anything else but God.
And so to have that feeling completely
wash over me was knowing that she
was going to heaven with God and.
This was back during Covid times, and
so at her funeral there was limited
capacity and it was really just my
immediate family, and they had asked
if any of us wanted to come up and
share a story about her, and I had the
opportunity to come up and share that
exact story with all of my family who
do not have a relationship with Christ.
It's the only time I've ever been
able to talk to any of them about God.
and I had, God had given me so much
courage in that moment to get through
it without crying at her funeral
and to be able to share the gospel
and his testimony with all of them.
And it was a really, really neat
opportunity that God had put
that in my path to be able to
present the gospel with them.
Because it's always been, like I
said, something that's unspoken that
we just don't bring up with them.
And it was really, really cool to see
him use that moment to get to share that.
Awesome.
Thank you so much for,
I think if we kept going, there'd
be more people that would have
enough boldness maybe to share.
Um, but our testimonies, and thank
you guys so much for sharing everybody
that did share and those of you
who do have stories, but we're just
afraid to share, my encouragement
is that maybe one day you'll have
the courage to be able to share.
Uh, but Jesus can be our prince
of peace in our times of.
Um, and, and here's what I know, uh, as
we think about this as we kind of come
to a conclusion of our series, is that
each of us lungs for peace in our lives.
I mean, I think everybody in this
room wants peace in our lives, right?
Peace in our relationships and our
jobs, our hearts and our relationships
and everything that we do, right?
Uh, and Jesus is here to provide that
peace through a relationship with him.
And so, as our, our series concludes,
just thinking through this, I want
you guys to, to know this, that Jesus.
His number one purpose was to save us
right to, to redeem us, to save us from
our sins because we are in a broken
world and we need to be complete.
And that's the cool part I love.
This is the idea behind the Prince
of Peace is this completeness
that he brings, right?
He came to be our wonderful counselor,
our mighty God, our everlasting father,
our prince of peace, and so much more.
Um, and I'm hoping, and I'm praying that
this Christmas season will be different
for all of us, different in the idea
that we understand why Jesus came more
than for our salvation, but to experience
a personal relationship with him.
Not to just save us from an eternity
separated from him in hell, but to, to
save us, to be able to receive a new life.
I, I think at times we miss
that aspect of salvation.
Don't dumb it down to
just spending eternity in.
Let's, let's realize that Jesus came to
give us so, so, so much more, and these
names of God are ways in which we get
to experience Jesus in a whole new way.
Um, but before I take some time to pray
and we go into invitation, I wanted
to talk about this word surrender.
I think what it takes sometimes
to experience Jesus, uh, in a
personal way and in a way of,
of where you understand peace.
It's this word.
S.
And surrender is such a difficult
idea because what it means is
you have to let down your guard.
You have to give up.
You have to say, I can't control the
situation anymore that you need Jesus.
And the reason why I share that word
surrender is I need you to understand
this, is that surrender isn't giving up.
It's letting go.
When you surrender to Jesus, it's
not like, man, my life's gonna
be horrible and life's just.
Just this horrible thing, and I
guess I'll get eternity in heaven,
but ah, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Surrender is letting go of everything
that weighs you down this side of
heaven, that that burdens you, that,
that causes you to feel like you can
control, and it allows you to receive a
new relationship with Jesus or receive
a new life and to receive peace and to
receive hope and forgiveness so much more.
So as we take some time during invitation,
I want you to to consider that.
So let's take some time to pray.
Lord Jesus, um, we are so
thankful for you, Lord.
We're so thankful for this message of
hope that you've given us in this season.
God, I'm praying for each person in
this room, Lord, that I know that
shared testimonies Lord, but even those
who didn't, who've experienced you as
Prince of Peace, Lord, we celebrate.
Lord, I'm also praying for the, the
people in this room, Lord, um, who haven't
experienced you as Prince of Peace.
God, I'm praying for their hearts
right now, Lord, that they begin to,
to, to remember the stories, not only
from your word Lord, but even from
the stories that we heard today of how
your peace showed up in times of need.
God, I know that you want to do more
and more in each one of our lives.
I know that in today is a day where
surrender is so important, Lord, for
those who need to give their lives
to you or surrender in an area of
their life, Lord, where they need
to experience you in a new way.
And so I just wanna do this as, as
you guys continue in an attitude of
prayer, here's my challenge for you,
as you guys are just thinking and
considering what God would have you do.
Here's my bold challenge to you.
If you're struggling to experience
God as a wonderful counselor, a
mighty God, an everlasting father,
or a prince of peace, with no one
looking around, I just want you to
raise your hand so I can pray for you.
I want you to be bold to say
that you need Jesus in that way.
If you're struggling to experience him in
any of those ways, just raise your hand so
I can pray for you so I can pray over you.
Here's the thing to try to encourage you.
My hands up, my one mine went up
first because I know I need prayer
for those things, so I'm gonna
pray for you, for you specifically
those who are raising their hands.
Lord Jesus, I pray for those of us that
are raising our hands and those of us
who maybe wanted to but didn't feel bold
enough to, Lord, I'm praying for them
to experience you in a whole new way
today, Lord, that they experience you as
everlasting father, that they experience.
As the prince of peace and the mighty
God that they experience you Lord,
as a wonderful counselor and a savior
God, give them the boldness to believe
every day in that and to ha build
the relationship, Lord, to know you
more and more to experience that.
Lord, I also pray for the person in this
room, Lord, who doesn't know you, who
hasn't given their lives to you and hasn't
experienced any part of you because they
haven't surrendered their life to you
through a saving relationship with you.
And here's my challenge
to you all in this room.
If you haven't given your
life to Jesus today, you can.
It's simple because Jesus
has already done all.
We just have to accept it.
And so, Lord, I just pray specifically
for the person in this room, Lord, that's
needing the boldness to say they need you.
Lord, I pray that they stand
up during this invitation.
They find me in the back and they
say this, I need to know Jesus.
I need to give my life to Jesus.
Lord, I'm praying for that person that
may be sitting in the chair that's just
wondering how to have a relationship with
you Lord, to, to even know what to do.
Lord, I pray that they stand up
during this invitation and they
come back and they talk to me.
Lord, today is the day of
salvation and today is the day to
experience you in a whole new way.
So, Lord, we thank you for today.
We thank you for this
opportunity to have a time of in.
And to be able to consider everything
that you've taught us and to surrender
our lives over to you in those areas.
So, Lord, we pray this
in your heaven name.
Amen.
You can continue in an attitude of
prayer as they lead us in worship today.